Hello and welcome to this tutorial.
OK so we are almost done with Part 1 data processing.
I can't wait to start making the machine learning models.
We just need three more tutorials to make our data set perfectly prepared before starting the models
and then we'll be good to go.
Okay.
So today we're going to talk about the fact that we need to split the data set into a training set and
a test set.
And I'll explain why we need to do that right now.
So let's go to Google Sheets.
While I'm on google sheets.
But you can be on Excel you can be on whatever tool you want.
But here is the data set open with google sheets.
So we have our 10 observations.
And this is the data set.
This is the whole dataset.
And what we should do in any machine learning models is that we're going to split this dataset into
two separate sets which are going to be the training set and the test set.
Now why do we need to do this.
Well when you take a step back and focus on the name machine learning itself you understand that this
is about a machine that is going to learn something well here.
It's your algorithm it's your model that is going to learn from your data to make predictions or other
machine learning goals.
And so your machine learning model is going to learn to do something on your data set by understanding
some correlations that there is a new data set.
And imagine your machine learning model is learning too much on the data set like it's learning too
much to correlations then I'm not sure its performance would be great on the new set with slightly different
correlations.
You know it's like a student who is learning by heart his lesson.
And then when he takes the exam he might be in trouble because he learned too much his lesson by heart.
And he does not manage to make the connection between what he learned and the exam.
And it's the same for machine learning.
We are going to build our machine learning models on a data set but then we have to test it on a new
set which is going to be slightly different from the data set on which we build the machine learning
model.
So we have to make two different sets of training set on which we build the machine only model and a
test set on which we test the performance of this machine learning model and the performance on the
test set shouldn't be that different from the performance on the training set because this would mean
that the machine learning models understood well the correlations and didn't learn them by heart so
that he can adapt to new sets and new situations.
Okay.
So that's the idea about splitting the data set into a training set and a test set.
And now let's see it on r.
So here we are the section is really splitting the data set into the training set and test set and let's
start coding the thing now that you understand well the difference between a training set and a test
set.
We're going to do it a little faster so new thing here we have to import a library.
We're going to import the library that is going to make a good split of the data set into the training
set in the test set and this library is called S.A. tools.
So let's import it here I'm going to the package tab to see the list of the libraries.
Here you can see that the S.A. tools libraries here I have it installed on the packages because I installed
it before but it's probably not the case for you if you're starting after for the first time.
So we're going to install it to install a library in r It's very simple you have to type install that
packages and then in parenthesis quotes and then the name of the library in quotes.
So here we type a tools and we're ready to go.
So then you have to select this line and press the commander control enter to execute.
Here it is.
And right now it's installing the package CEA tools okay perfect.
So then you have to put it as a comment because you won't need to install it again.
But then as you can see we just installed to see a tool library but it's not activated yet.
You know it's not selected and we have to select it so to select a library you have two choice either
you click on the box here as you can see this generates the scripts here or you know if you have some
scripts that you want to automate and execute once in a time well you can specify in your script that
you want to include the library and to do this you just need to type library parenthesis and see a tool
the name of your library not in quotes actually this time library Seattle's okay perfect and now you're
ready to go.
We can check it S.A. tools is not selected right now.
And if I select this and press criminal control to execute now it is now it selected.
Okay.
So now we imported the CIA tools library that is going to make a good split of the data sent into the
training set in the test set.
So now let's make the split so remember in Python for those of you who follow the python tutorial we
used random state equals zero so that we get the same results.
Well here it's gonna be the same we're going to set a seed to have the same results only we're gonna
do it now.
And we're not going to wait to be in the function in the library that makes the split.
So to do it we have to set the same seed and so we can type set that seed and in parentheses we can
choose any number we want it can be this number you know that's a seed if we both choose this number
we'll have the same result but let's choose a more simple number let's use for example 1 2 3.
And now let's make the split.
It's not as simple as in Python where we making in one line here we're going to have to prepare the
method that we are going to call split.
That is the method that is going to make the split of your data set into the training set and the test
equals and then simple that split OK.
Now if you want we can press F1 to see what we have to input adjacency sample that split split data
in test and train set.
Let's see the arguments.
The first argument is why.
So that's not the same argument that we had to put forth python and Python we had to put both the matrix
of features x and the dependent variable vector Y.
Here we only have to put y on there we're gonna take Y the following where we're going to type dataset.
Dollar sign per chased because your dependent variable is per Chase.
Okay.
That's okay with the first parameter.
And then what is the second parameter.
It's split ratio.
OK.
So split ratio.
That's right split ratio here.
And so split ratio is just a percentage of the observations that you want to put in your training set.
So let's be careful in Python we put the percentage for the test set.
And here we have to put it for the training set.
So remember in it in Python we chose 20 percent for a test.
So here logically for the training set we will choose 0 point 8.
Okay.
So what will the split return.
So it will return true or false for each of your observations.
That means that each observation will have either true or false and it is gonna be true if this observation
was chosen to go to the training set and false if the observation was chosen to go to the test set.
So let's have a look.
Let's select this under control.
Let's enter to execute and here it is.
We have the split here.
So now let's go to the console and right split right.
Enter.
All right.
You see that you have 10 values and so true means that the observation goes to the training set and
false mean that the observation goes to the test set.
Okay.
So now what we have to do is to create the training set and the tested separately.
So we're going into this will type training set which is gonna be the name of our training set actually.
Let's make it simple.
So training set equals subset parenthesis.
And here is the first argument we put data set because it's a training set as a subset of the data set
and here we will specify that we want the split equals equals true and that's it.
Okay.
That's it for the training set.
Now let's copy this line
pasted here and here we're gonna change training set to test set.
And of course we're gonna change.
Split equals equals true to false because the test sets are the observations for which the split equals
false.
And now we're ready we are ready to make the split of the data set into the training set in the test
set.
So let's execute these lines command control plus enter to execute.
And here we go test and training sets are created.
Let's look at them.
So let's click on the training set here and the test set.
Let's move that here and that here OK.
Let's look at the training set first.
OK.
We see that we have eight observations.
Okay good.
And now let's look at the test set.
Now we can clearly see that we have two observations with six and nine perfect OK.
So that's it for this tutorial.
You now know how to split your data set into a training set and a test set.
This is a must do in any machine learning models you have to test the performance of your machine learning
model into a separate test set.
So congratulations.
Now you're almost ready to begin the journey of making exciting machine learning models.
We just have one thing to do left feature scaling your understanding the next material why it's so important
to do this.
So I look forward to seeing you there.
And until then enjoy machine learning.